# Homework 1

## Problem 1

1. The month with the highest percentage growth from 2021 was May with 204% growth.
2. The total number of battery electric vehicles (BEV) and plugin hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV) sold globally in 2021 was,

$$
2332+3396+735+286 = 6,749,000 \approx 6.75\ \text{million units}
$$



3. This constitutes a 108% increase from the previous year.



## Problem 2

1. False
2. True
3. False, it was AC Propulsion's  [Wally Rippel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wally_Rippel), Alan Cocconi, and Paul Carosa.



## Problem 3

1. **According to the article, this is true.** In reality, this is false propaganda because it presumes that purchasing an EV is cost effective on average. It is not. I have done the math personally (since I'm a huge fan of EVs and want one) and it would take me approximately **86 years** to recoup the cost of purchasing a new Ford 150 EV to replace my current 2015 Chevy Silverado with the energy cost differential. I will admit that I did not factor in difference in maintenance. However, my Ford Escape Hybrid is so plagued with software glitches, that I'm not sure maintenance cost would not be higher for EVs who require higher skilled technicians to diagnose and repair. In my case, my 2021 Ford Escape Hybrid (which is almost identical to the Ford Escape PHEV) has software issues that Ford will not fix unless you purchase a new 2022 Ford Escape Hybrid.

   For others, it may make sense. I have a cousin who is an affluent VP of a finance company. He replaced his luxury Audi sedan with a Tesla. He calculated that the total cost of ownership was almost equivalent between the two vehicles and is very happy with his decision and less stress communiting with the Tesla's superior autonomous driving. However, this is not the normative case for Americans struggling to pay their bills in light of the current 16% inflation (9% CPI).